All right.
So let's take a look at the Jupiter notebook that we were going to basically use to develop our machine
learning algorithm where we can at classify again cancer into all tumors into malignant or benign cancers.
Here are just in to kind of a quick description of the problem statement.
Again we have our feature sets we have certain features and kind of know what occurred are presenting
the different characteristics of the cell of the nucleus that we are in out of the patient.
So we have radious texture perimeter area smoothness and so on and data sets in general they are linearly
separable.
OK.
And they have we have 569 instances and classes they are divided into two hundred and twelve malignant
cases and 357 benign cases.
OK so in total we're going to be five hundred and sixty nine.
And again the target class we're going to be either malignant or benign.
All right.
You guys can download the data set if you follow that link or you can.
Again are going to show you.
We're going to use the Eski learn to actually load our data.
All right.
So let's get started.
So first step is we can import all the libraries that we need.
OK.
So first step is going to import pandas as speedy panda so pandas mainly can be used as a library that
can be used for data manipulation using data frames.
It's kind of you know like kind of Excel basically for Python.
All right.
And the next step we're going to import some pie as umpire can be used for data statistical analysis.
Right.
And then moving forward we're going to import math plug lead.
Matt Laclede dot PI plot as well.
Okay.
And then afterwards we can import what we call it Seaborn.
Again map plot label can be used for data visualization.
And we going to use kind of a library that we call it seaborne which is good.
It's very powerful.
When we do statistical data visualization I'm going to show you the power and the beauty of C-Boomer
as we move forward.
OK so going to import seaborne as asinus.
Right.
That's pretty much the first step.
Let's run the cell so we once would undersell it tells us OK that means here it's loading.
And we're good.
OK so once you see the number that means we're good.
The next step is we're going to actually lower the actual cancer data sets.
So we're going to say from Skillern that data sets
imports we're going to load the data called Load breast cancers are going to load underscore breasts
underscore cancer cancer.
That's the first step.
So that window the data first and then second step we can actually kind of think an instance of that
low bed low breast cancer.
So going do cancer equals we're going to take simply the last breath care that breast cancer can see
here.
I'm just going to take an instance of it.
Let's run it.
Now we have our cancer information.
OK that's all pretty much the data.
Let's take a look at it let's view it.
So again just from the cell that we showed us basically OK.
So we have the data that's kind of all the numbers that we have all the features we have all the target
data showing is a zero or one showing simply if the cancer is malignant or benign.
And here we're just you know a bunch of like messed up information as you can see here.
So let's see how can we view the data in a better better format.
So if we click a that will simply create more cells.
So here is just going to be creating a couple of newer cells.
All right so the next step is we wanted to see OK the keys within the cancer.
OK.
Let's see that the kind of the titles OK.
Are the keys within that dictionary.
So we're going to do is going to say cancer dot keys and that will tell us pretty much what column that
we have or what dictionaries do we have.
So we have the data we have our target our target names which is kind of the title of the target which
is simply going to be malignant or benign description.
I'm going to tell us all the description of the data and then we're going to have all the feature names
which is the actual feature names kind of you know radius perimeter and so on so forth.
OK so let's print them know one by one.
OK.
So the first up we're going to print right brain cancer and then we're going to do it that we're going
to select the description section described.
OK let's click run and once we see here it's actually going to show you now the information that wanted
to view earlier.
But in a better format it's really just going to show you more of instance we have women and 69 attributes
30.
And if you guys can see this or the other information radius and so forth if you scroll down which would
show the class malignant or benign and if you go down it will just going to show you or the min max
or the values or the minimax of the values basically going to show you here all the references you know
like the date 1995 and so on and so forth.
OK.
It's kind of a quick description.
Let's do the same as well.
Right.
So let's get going.
So let's print.
Are we're going to do that we're going to print cancer but we are going to select instead our targets.
OK.
So we're going to have targets and we're going to run it that we're simply going to show us all the
data all the information that's kind of the target class which will treat either 0 or 1.
Well again we're going to do prints and we can open and thinking about cancer and then we're going to
select simply the target names target underscore the names that will tell us OK either we have two classes
of malignant or benign.
OK.
One more time.
But for the feature names so let's print and then we can write cancer sorry cancer and then we are going
to select simply our feature names so we can write feature underscore names that will tell us simply
all the features names that we have so I mean radious infection and so on so forth.
OK.
All right so what.
What if we wanted to look at the for example the shape of the of the data.
So we could do with it right.
Again cancer.
And then we're going to select the actual data which is simply color and we call it data and then we
could apply a method for shape that can tell us what's the shape of it.
So here we have as we expected we have five hundred and sixty nine.
OK gross or datasets and have three columns three columns indicating three features.
Simply put.
Right.
So the first step is what we're going to do in order to deal with the data and a much easier way we're
going to create a data frame.
OK.
When you say data frame it would make our life ten times easier when we seem to use Pandurs data frame
to actually present the data.
And let's see how can we how can we do this.
So simply what we could do actually have the command right here.
So we could do that we could try PD the data frame that would create a data frame out of our cancer
data and the target data.
So here we're going to specify cancer data and target which means that we're going to include 30 columns
of all the data we have and then can add an additional column which the first column that includes a
target data which is kind of you know we didn't get include all the training that has all the inputs
and outputs in just in one kind of data frame.
Right.
And here we're going to mention columns when I specify the columns are going to specify and P-doc append.
We're going to use append which is simply just to append two vectors or two columns together.
So we're going to have cancel that feature names and then we have target as well.
All right let's run this command that will simply create a data frame we call it the f underscore cancer.
Right let's explore the data.
So if we write an IDF underscore cancer OK and let's say we specify I want to look at the first couple
of the titles and the first couple of rows.
OK.
So for a head that would actually tell us OK so here we have the radius.
I mean texture I mean perimeter and so on.
And if we keep going that will tell us the target as well which is pretty cool.
So now we have all our 30 basically features along with the target which is along with the goal or the
objective that we wanted to implement.
Right.
OK.
What if I wanted to simply look at the f cancer as well but I don't want to look again let's create
some yourselves in here and let's instead of creating the head.
Let's look at the tail.
Let's look at the end of it actually that makes sense.
We have five hundred and sixteen hundred sixty eight and we have 31 columns again.
If we scroll down here again we'll see all the data.
But that's when looking at the last samples basically.
All right.
Okay great.
That's pretty much all what we need to load the data.
The next step is that we want it to actually just going to go and delete all the cells should we need
them.
So let's take a look at how can we visualize that they're going to do.
They're going to use pair plot count plot and scatterplot to actually view all the data using the seaborne
library.
So first let's try the plot.
I'm going to give you just know run it first just to give an idea of what you know what purpose does.
It's really powerful.
I'll give you one one stop shop.
A quick glance at the entire data in one place.
So let's get started.
So we're going to do is going right as soon as that pair the pair plot and we're going to do with going
rate IDF cancer that we're going to call our data free.
All going to do that we're going to use simply what variables do we need.
OK.
So what are we going to do.
They're going right VAR's which is all the variables that we want.
OK.
I'm not going to plot all the 30 samples.
I was going to plotless say the first five for six.
OK.
Have them copied here.
So we're going to just going into the mean radius mean textures mean area I mean primitive means smooth
this.
One variable that we need.
Let's actually let's go unplug this first and to see what's going to happen.
I can see here it's actually really powerful because I can see it just shows you like kind of a one
step or the relationship between the mean radius or the value that we chose along with the mean smoothness
mean perimeter of an area and so on.
So the only problem is we can actually view the data and just looks fine to me but the only problem
is doesn't show the target class.
It doesn't show the actual decay which one of these samples is malignant and which one of them is benign.
So what are we going to do instead.
We can actually write in a select call here which is specify the target class.
So we're gonna write H U E equals going to specify.
They use the column which is.
OK to simply specify that we're going to use the target column which is simply this column right here
which indicates if it's 0 or 1.
OK.
As kind of the heat which is indicating the culture let's run this and see what's going to happen.
Well actually that's pretty much it.
It's way better so as you can see here it's been classified as well.
So.
OK the target if it's 0 or 1.
So zero indicates malignant and one indicates benign.
What I mean by this is the blue points in here that's the malignant case that's mean the kind of his
feet severe case or like the life threatening case per se.
So here you will see that the main area for instance for malignant cases a little bit more compared
to the the benign cases the mean perimeter a little bit more you see that the kind of the the the the
mean area here is a little bit more.
You can see that even the distribution.
So this is kind of a distribution that shows you the distribution of samples for the mean radius.
You can see that the radius for the malignant cases actually more is actually higher.
And if you refer back to the images that we had before actually let's go and view the images.
So if you go back to the images you will find that the malignant cases actually make mix a little bit
of sense of the tumor.
This is kind of the malignant cases.
You see the cells a little bit like you know like bigger per se.
And these are the areas little bit bigger here it's kind of a little bit more uniform a little bit small
here for the benign cases.
Right.
OK.
The next step is that we're going to use the ascent as well.
Good luck with the seaborne.
Would he use the counterplot.
OK.
So right.
Right.
S and s dot count plot and are going to do.
They're going to call the data frame which is again DFI underscore cancer the underscore cancer and
organ and choose simply we're going to choose the targets to an account with how many samples is zero
and how many samples is one.
Just to give you kind of visualization we know the samples beforehand.
We just want to look at Adam.
Right.
So we're going to do is going to have cancer.
And then we're going to use simply the target colon to do with the counting.
All right.
OK.
Let's run it.
This is a classic.
OK.
This is the only one we know that the malignant cases are down 200 samples.
And the benign cases is that one hundred and fifty samples in total Csound five hundred and sixty somersaulting.
OK.
All right.
Let's keep going.
So the next step is are we going right or going to just take maybe one of these like graphs and see
how can we plot it so we're going to use as an ass again seaborne but we're going to use the scatterplot.
Right.
So going write going right as soon as that scatter plot and we're going to do.
We're going to select which what we want to plot on the x axis.
We're going to plot on the y axis what Hugh we're going to be selecting and what's data free and that
we need to be selecting basically.
So the first step is going to write x.
Let's say we're going to print let's say the mean Area mean area.
OK.
And we wanted to plug the Y which is going to be mean smoothness per se means smoothness and we want
to applaud the hewe.
We're going to be my target and we need to select what data what's the date of the meeting we just simply
that we're the interface which is the underscore of cancer.
All right let's run this.
And that's pretty much our scatterplot which is pretty interesting to me that the main area I mean smoothness
and which are the target class.
Right.
OK what if I wanted to select the correlation.
For example I want to just just run maybe one command that can tell is TELL ME OK how these columns
hold these features are correlated so what we can do is that we could use the seaborne heat map as follows
suit.
So it just started as an ass heat map and we're going to do that we're going to call the data frame
the underscore cancer and we're going to apply a method that we call correlation which is c o w r the
basic is just our simple method and simply to plot our heat map what we're going to do that we because
we want it to plot as well the values or the numbers of correlation we give you the notation we can
apply to activate and make it true.
Let's run this and sticking.
See it's little bit like messed up in here.
So what we're going to do instead we're going to change the size because we are plotting so many different
samples.
We're going to do with going to use the figure size to actually adjust the size of the figure.
So we're get to use plots that figure.
And we're going to set the figure size into let's say 20 and 10 for example 20 and 10.
OK.
Let's run it.
That's much better.
So this is pretty much the overall view of the correlation of the data.
So here we have our three features.
We have our three features and you'll see that simply we have you know point nine nine value for example
between the mean area and the mean perimeter which means that there's a very high correlation between
the two.
Here we have between let's say the mean radius and the mean area there is a very high correlation and
so on you guys can just go through with the the coalition to give you an overview of the correlation
values between the data.
All right.
That's all we have for the data visualization.
Let me recap.
So first of all we use peer flautist to plot to plot basically all the correlations or all the relationships
between the different variables.
And then we use counterplot to count the samples we use scatterplot just to plot specific two variables.
So is this the target class and then we use the correlations to actually show me the different correlations
between our features.
I hope you guys enjoy that section and see in the next section.